

This is the general model without delay described by the equation system (1)
in: **A model of HIV-1 pathogenesis that includes an intracellular delay.**  
Nelson PW, Murray JD, Perelson AS; _Math Biosci._ 2000 Feb;163(2):201-15.
PMID: [10701304](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10701304) ; doi: [10.1016/
S0025-5564(99)00055-3](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0025-5564\(99\)00055-3)  
**Abstract:**   
Mathematical modeling combined with experimental measurements have yielded
important insights into HIV-1 pathogenesis. For example, data from experiments
in which HIV-infected patients are given potent antiretroviral drugs that
perturb the infection process have been used to estimate kinetic parameters
underlying HIV infection. Many of the models used to analyze data have assumed
drug treatments to be completely efficacious and that upon infection a cell
instantly begins producing virus. We consider a model that allows for less
then perfect drug effects and which includes a delay in the initiation of
virus production. We present detailed analysis of this delay differential
equation model and compare the results to a model without delay. Our analysis
shows that when drug efficacy is less than 100%, as may be the case in vivo,
the predicted rate of decline in plasma virus concentration depends on three
factors: the death rate of virus producing cells, the efficacy of therapy, and
the length of the delay. Thus, previous estimates of infected cell loss rates
can be improved upon by considering more realistic models of viral infection.  
**Author Keywords:** HIV; Delay; Viral life cycle; T-cells 

As there are no results given for this model in the article it cannot be
checked for MIRIAM compliance. The SBML file should be equivalent to the
described ODE file though.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

